---
---
Here, in this post I describe my setup and routines that I follow for programming. 

The Hardware
I use an early 2013 MacBook Pro with a 2.6 GHz Intel Core i7 processor 8 gigs of RAM and 500 GB HDD. This is the best piece of hardware that I have owned thus far and enjoy juicing it. Even though the 15-inch MBP is a bit bulky, I carry it around with me, always. This serves me well as my PC and work machine. 
In addition to this, I use a Logitech Performance MX mouse. Again, this is the best mouse I have experience and shall probably never go back to using Apple’s Magic Mouse/Track pad. I also carry few connectors for the laptop, as these are not commonly available around here. My go to earphone are the Audio Technica ATH-M50 and Sony MDR-XB30EX in-ear phones.  

The Software
Since I haven’t identified my go to ‘’language,” I have a lot of choices and IDEs to work with. First off, MATLAB is golden and I have been using it since my undergrad days. Then, I use Eclipse IDE for many of the Java programs. Emacs is the text editor that I feel most comfortable to use (because of the customizations and themes mainly). Canopy (free edition) is the Python editor in addition to the terminal (an alternate would be iTerm2). The list of other programs installed is: R, Weka, Torch 7, Julia, Knime and many more. I have this clutter, as there is a demand to program in multiple languages across various platforms at which I hope to become good at!
For versions control I use Transit or GitHub. I use texmaker Latex editor to prepare formal documents like papers, reports etc. A trivial yet very useful software is Caffeine to keep my screen awake while I read papers at length. I use VMware Fusion to run a flavor of Window on my Mac. Beside these, I have Microsoft Office Suite, Photoshop and TeamViewer installed. Google Chrome best fits my needs as I can share history and bookmarks across devices and I rarely close tabs. 

Many of the software that I use are openly available or at least available for free for personal use. I also intentionally try to build all my sites using the Git (saves me the trouble of managing Ruby versions and setting up a MAMP server, but this requires an active internet connection of course).

I would love to hear about the setup and software consumption of others and try to improve on my existing environment.

PS: I would have missed out some IDE that I use regularly as the post would then become long and stodgy. 
